Do you want to generate record views and
sales from YouTube in 2026, but you are
not sure how? Well, in 2025, I made well
over $4 million from this YouTube
channel. And it only happened because I
became obsessed with four things. Not
subscribers, not click-through rates,
and not retention. So, in this video,
I'm going to show you what those
obsessions are and how you can use them
to make 2026 your best year on YouTube
ever. So, let's start with obsession
number one, which causes 99% of videos
to get less views. And I've never heard
anyone talk about this before. And it's
all about obsessing over how your
viewers's brain actually works. The
thing is, if you don't understand this,
you can't design your videos in the best
way for people to actually engulf your
content. Meaning, it fails. So, here's
how it works. So, I want you to imagine
that my hand is your viewers's brain.
And every single ball that I put into it
is one thing that their brain has to pay
attention to. So ball one, this is when
your viewer has clicked your video
because your title and thumbnail made a
promise. So their brain stores that
expectation. Now ball two, this is when
you start talking and their brain is
checking, is this video actually about
what I clicked on? And then we have ball
three, your structure, and it gets
messy. You jump between topics a bit and
their brain's going, hang on a sec,
where is this actually going? And then
you throw in ball four, another tangent.
this is an unrelated detail or a story
that isn't tied to the original promise
you gave them. And that is when your
video dies. Because science shows us we
have something called a working memory.
Basically, your short-term memory for
listening and learning can only hold
around three things at once. So, when
you add that fourth ball, their brain
has to drop something. And if it drops
the original promise or the thread of
your point or the reason that they
clicked, viewers instantly get lost and
they start thinking, "Wait, why am I
watching this? Is he ever going to get
to the point? What is this even about?"
And that makes them overloaded and then
they get frustrated and then as a result
they'll leave. So how do you stop that
happening? Actually keep people watching
your videos. Well, this is where the
first obsession comes in. So, at the
start of 2025, I started studying
authors and creators and basically the
world's top personal brands cuz I wanted
to understand what made their content so
popular. And I noticed that they all do
the same simple thing that stops that
overload happening. They put their
information in a specific order and
that's it. So, let me show you what this
order is and how it works. Let's take
musclebound caveman Alex Wosi as an
example. What he tends to do is he'll
start each point with a clear problem.
business people already feel like most
people can't scale their businesses
because their offer sucks or most
founders are allergic to doing boring
things consistently. And then he gives
one example after that, like a real life
story that shows what that problem looks
like. Something like, "So when I was
down to my last dollar at gym launch, I
had to get focused." And then he'll
unpack the story. And then after that,
he gives you Whoops. And then after the
story's finished, he basically gives you
one clear lesson or a rule that can be
applied to yourself. So the structure is
problem, example, lesson. And now you
know this, you're going to start to see
this pattern absolutely everywhere. But
why does that get their content so much
traction? Well, it's because it reduces
something called cognitive load, where
instead of dumping information randomly
and overloading your viewers working
memory, it layers complexity one step at
a time instead. And the reason that
structure works is because when you
start by calling out the problem your
viewer has, it makes it clear to the
viewer, oh, this is relevant to me and
what I clicked on. So, they are hooked
and they pay attention and they stop
searching for if this is what they
wanted in the first place. Then, when
you follow it up with an example, like a
story that shows how someone solved the
problem, it adds another layer of
information on without too much detail.
It's just a soft introduction. This
enables the viewers to then get a basic
understanding. And then they give the
lesson which has a bit more detail on
top. And that exact order is basically
what makes information click. And when
something clicks, this is the thumb
part, it then leaves the working memory
and it moves to the long-term memory.
And that is known as a light bulb moment
where someone truly understands
something. But the real power of this is
once that idea has moved out of working
memory, you've just freed up a ton of
space for your next point. So you just
repeat this pattern over and over again
throughout a video. You can do it 10,
20, 30 times in a row without
overloading your viewer. I think this
one obsession has made me more money
last year than any title or thumbnail or
editing trick I've ever picked up on
because once people truly understand
what you're teaching, they just want
more from you. This next obsession I had
was the solution to the biggest problem
on YouTube right now. So I realized what
the secret to YouTube is when I went to
see the band Madness Live. Now you might
know him for this song.
>> And when I was listening to them, I
thought, you know what, Suger,
he's not a very good singer. He kind of
talks sings. Yet they are still one of
the most famous scar bands of all time.
And then I thought, hang on, MC Jagger,
the frontman of the Rolling Stones, his
voice is all kind of wobbly.
>> I don't think he'd make it past round
one of America's Got Talent with that.
And then you've got Ian Aspbury from The
Cold, who sounds like this.
>> And I thought, how did a band get so big
when the front man sounds like he's
doing an impression of the guy from
Police Academy? Did you ever think about
like maybe getting some contact lenses?
>> All of these people are world famous for
the exact same reason, even though they
kind of suck a bit in a weird way. And
the reason is because in a sea of
musicians copying each other's sound,
these guys took their genre and then
added something that made it unique and
that made them stick out from everyone
else in their niche with a less
memorable sound. And YouTube works in
exactly the same way. If you want to
stand out in 2026, you can't make the
same video with the same advice in the
same tone and expect the same results as
the bigger channels already doing it
better than you, you have to come up
with your own unique sound, not try and
copy someone else's. But how do you do
that? Well, it comes from three things
that you need to work on religiously.
Firstly, your worldview. You need to
think about how you interpret the same
problems everyone else is talking about
with your own unique spin. Secondly,
your delivery style. You need to work
out your pacing, your humor, your
honesty, your energy, and create just a
memorable vibe that people come back
for. And in thirdly, your structure. You
need to organize information in a way
that just makes it easier for people to
understand than everyone else in your
niche. The thing is, if you apply the
process I taught you earlier and become
a master of reducing cognitive load,
your unique sound will naturally appear
because the creators who explain things
more clearly than everyone else, well,
that's their unique edge. Now, my next
obsession was something almost every
business owner gets wrong. And I am
convinced this is one of the biggest
reasons last year was so big for me. So,
in 2025, I worked with over 500
businesses very closely. And so many of
them said, "Ed, I'm getting views, but
they're not converting to sales." And
almost every time they followed it up
with, "Should I just pitch my offer more
and maybe earlier in my video?" And the
answer is no. You don't need to pitch
your offer in your videos ever to get
sales because the real reason your
viewers don't click your links and go to
your sales page is because they don't
trust you, not because they don't know
you have an offer. So to fix low sales
from views, this is all I obsessed over
are cognitive load structure problem
example solution. But more importantly,
this section here, the example section,
because every time I'm planning, I ask
myself a question, and that is, how can
I tell a story that shows the viewers
how I got my clients a result to make
the example? So, if you look through my
videos from 2025, you'll notice nearly
every single one I share a story about a
client. So, it might be a client who had
a breakthrough, who fixed a big mistake,
who overcame a belief, who made a crap
ton of money,
and then I back it up with a screenshot
that shows the proof, too, which proves
it's legit. And hardly anyone else will
ever do that cuz they are lying or
they're just lazy. Now, what happens
when you do this consistently is your
viewers watch one video after the other
and naturally just start to think, I
want them to help me too. So, they start
hunting for your links because they are
hungry to work with you. So, if you want
to generate more sales from your views,
what you need to realize is the ultimate
currency on this planet isn't the money
your clients pay you, it's the story you
get from their results. One good story
can be put absolutely everywhere in your
marketing and in your content. And that
one story could generate you 10 times
more than what the original client paid.
But also these stories, they
differentiate you and they reduce
cognitive load. So they make your
content better too. What I would say is
focus on getting your client wins and
your channel and business will look
after itself. Now the final session I
have this year is one that you really
just have to do now. Otherwise, I don't
think YouTube's going to work for you.
And I'd say that 90% of businesses that
I come across just ignore this. So to
explain, let's just have a quick look at
what YouTube has become. It's no longer
a place where people just hop on a
camera and talk about their hobbies
because it's fun. YouTube is replacing
television. It's a multi-billion dollar
business. It's attracting some of the
biggest personal brands in the world.
And the people at the top, they never
say, "Do you know what? I'm just going
to slap up a quick video." And they
never wing it. They are putting insane
amounts of time and effort and resources
into their content to get their idea
across that they have spent decades
crafting. And because of that, they make
videos that steal all your impressions.
And to me, it blows me away the amount
of people who are like, I'll just slap
up another video quickly. And then they
go, "Wait, why isn't this working?" To
get results now, you basically have to
become the pro in your niche. So, how do
you get to that level? Well, when I
first started on YouTube, I had no
subscribers just like everyone else. And
I asked myself, how am I going to
compete with 2 million subscriber
channels? And I thought, I got to make
better content than them somehow. So, I
put a ton of effort into the content.
And it worked. It's getting hundreds of
thousands of views per video. And then I
decided, I need to pivot. This isn't me
anymore. So, I started this channel. And
I was like, a crap. Now, I'm in the
businessish nation. I've got to compete
against even stiffer competition. How on
earth do I get ahead? So, I asked the
same question, but I already knew the
answer. Try to make the best content in
your space. Now, I'm not saying I do
that, but I'm trying. But that is why in
2025 I went all in on learning how
people actually learn. I took myself to
lessons, physical real life lessons near
actual humans in a school to learn how
people are teaching and learning. I
studied cognitive load structure
frameworks sequencing clarity, other
personal brands, writing. I work with
clients across hundreds of different
niches which let me see every flipping
problem that stops people succeeding.
And I turned all of those insights into
new processes that made my clients get
better results. And as a result, I then
made better content and I can teach you
guys better too. So my real obsession
since day one of doing this, and yours
should be too, is simply how can I make
content better than everyone else. And
the answer is always the same. Time,
effort, energy, not listening to this
advice telling you to just throw a video
up and go with the vibes. So now you
know this and that you need to get very
good at structuring your content. The
best way to do that is to learn
storytelling and to become a master
storyteller. So, watch this video next
and I will give you the exact
storytelling system that I have been
using for years that will grow your
channel and your business and will turn
more viewers into buyers. Have a great
year. I hope you smash it in 2026. I'm
off to play with my balls.